README.rst, before:


Introduction
============

This application was built to enable a quick overview and import of existing
open data into OpenStreetMap_. It tries to demonstrate a possible approach
and can serve as a blueprint to build your own Application.

Getting Started
----------------

Execute the install script in this folder with `./install.sh`
I added the line::

    local   osopen_data     all                                     trust

to my `pg_hba.conf` to avoid problems with authentication

Data
----

The Data is derived from:

'Code-Point' Open and 'OS Open Map - Local' from ordnancesurvey_
'All EduBase data.csv' from edubase_
'School Contact Details' from the  Scottish Government seed_

From https://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/opendatadownload/products.html
you have to download the
**`OS Open Map - Local`** (all squares) and **`Code-Point Open`** Products.

You will also need the csv files from EduBase and seed for the schooldata
**`All EduBase data.csv`** from http://www.education.gov.uk/edubase/home.xhtml
and **`School contact details`** from
http://www.gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/Browse/School-Education/Datasets/contactdetails

The latter is in excel format and has to be converted into csv before
using it. The headers must be:
'SeedCode',
'LA Name',
'Centre Type',
'School Name',
'Address 1',
'Address 2',
'Address 3',
'Post code',
'E-mail',
'Phone',
'Primary_school',
'Secondary',
'Special',
'Primary roll',
'Secondary roll',
'Special roll',
'Primary1',
'Secondary1',
'Special1',
'Denomination'
so rename them accordingly and remove the columns not included here.

Put the data from the above sources into the data directory.
It should have these files in it::

    seeddata2015.csv
    edubasealldata20160308.csv
    codepo_gb.zip
    opmplc_essh_hp.zip
    opmplc_essh_ht.zip
    opmplc_essh_hu.zip
    opmplc_essh_hw.zip
    opmplc_essh_hx.zip
    opmplc_essh_hy.zip
    opmplc_essh_hz.zip
    opmplc_essh_na.zip
    opmplc_essh_nb.zip
    opmplc_essh_nc.zip
    opmplc_essh_nd.zip
    opmplc_essh_nf.zip
    opmplc_essh_ng.zip
    opmplc_essh_nh.zip
    opmplc_essh_nj.zip
    opmplc_essh_nk.zip
    opmplc_essh_nl.zip
    opmplc_essh_nm.zip
    opmplc_essh_nn.zip
    opmplc_essh_no.zip
    opmplc_essh_nr.zip
    opmplc_essh_ns.zip
    opmplc_essh_nt.zip
    opmplc_essh_nu.zip
    opmplc_essh_nw.zip
    opmplc_essh_nx.zip
    opmplc_essh_ny.zip
    opmplc_essh_nz.zip
    opmplc_essh_ov.zip
    opmplc_essh_sd.zip
    opmplc_essh_se.zip
    opmplc_essh_sh.zip
    opmplc_essh_sj.zip
    opmplc_essh_sk.zip
    opmplc_essh_sm.zip
    opmplc_essh_sn.zip
    opmplc_essh_so.zip
    opmplc_essh_sp.zip
    opmplc_essh_sr.zip
    opmplc_essh_st.zip
    opmplc_essh_su.zip
    opmplc_essh_sv.zip
    opmplc_essh_sw.zip
    opmplc_essh_sx.zip
    opmplc_essh_sy.zip
    opmplc_essh_sz.zip
    opmplc_essh_ta.zip
    opmplc_essh_tf.zip
    opmplc_essh_tg.zip
    opmplc_essh_tl.zip
    opmplc_essh_tm.zip
    opmplc_essh_tq.zip
    opmplc_essh_tr.zip
    opmplc_essh_tv.zip
    oprvrs_essh_gb.zip


Requirements
-------------

python 2.7, ogr, gdal, postgis, shp2pgsql, ogr2ogr are required and must be installed.



Import
------

The import script is written in fabric. Excecute is as `fab init_db`.
If all goes well you can now connect to the database and inpect the
data.



Starting the Django application
--------------------------------

Activate the virtual environment and start django::

    christian@darkstar:~/devel$ cd os-opendata/
    christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata$ source bin/activate
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata$ cd osschooldata/
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py migrate
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py createsuperuser
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8017

Goto `http://localhost:8017/` in your browser.

Click on login to start

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/login.png

Once authenticated start by clicking on *start*

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/logged_in.png

If data from OSM is available it will display as an amber polygon, The Data from
Ordnancesurvey is displayed as a blue polygon and the data from seed/edubase as
a blue marker. Below the map details of this data is displayed.

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign.png

If there is no openstreetmap data only the Ordnancesurvey data is displayed.

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-nosm.png

If there is no data from edubase or seed (i.e. outdated OS-Open data - school is closed):

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-no-school.png

The below image indicates that the school that once existed here was closed:

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-osm-no-edudata.png

TODO
----

Docker:
-------

    docker-machine start dev
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose build
    docker-compose up -d
    docker info
    docker-compose logs



.. _ordnancesurvey: https://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/opendatadownload/products.html
.. _edubase: http://www.education.gov.uk/edubase/home.xhtml
.. _seed: http://www.gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/Browse/School-Education/Datasets/contactdetails
.. _OpenStreetMap: https://www.openstreetmap.org/#map=17/53.23383/-0.53536

Commit message:

Add Switching background imagery to README

README.rst, after:


Introduction
============

This application was built to enable a quick overview and import of existing
open data into OpenStreetMap_. It tries to demonstrate a possible approach
and can serve as a blueprint to build your own Application.

Getting Started
----------------

Execute the install script in this folder with `./install.sh`
I added the line::

    local   osopen_data     all                                     trust

to my `pg_hba.conf` to avoid problems with authentication

Data
----

The Data is derived from:

'Code-Point' Open and 'OS Open Map - Local' from ordnancesurvey_
'All EduBase data.csv' from edubase_
'School Contact Details' from the  Scottish Government seed_

From https://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/opendatadownload/products.html
you have to download the
**`OS Open Map - Local`** (all squares) and **`Code-Point Open`** Products.

You will also need the csv files from EduBase and seed for the schooldata
**`All EduBase data.csv`** from http://www.education.gov.uk/edubase/home.xhtml
and **`School contact details`** from
http://www.gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/Browse/School-Education/Datasets/contactdetails

The latter is in excel format and has to be converted into csv before
using it. The headers must be:
'SeedCode',
'LA Name',
'Centre Type',
'School Name',
'Address 1',
'Address 2',
'Address 3',
'Post code',
'E-mail',
'Phone',
'Primary_school',
'Secondary',
'Special',
'Primary roll',
'Secondary roll',
'Special roll',
'Primary1',
'Secondary1',
'Special1',
'Denomination'
so rename them accordingly and remove the columns not included here.

Put the data from the above sources into the data directory.
It should have these files in it::

    seeddata2015.csv
    edubasealldata20160308.csv
    codepo_gb.zip
    opmplc_essh_hp.zip
    opmplc_essh_ht.zip
    opmplc_essh_hu.zip
    opmplc_essh_hw.zip
    opmplc_essh_hx.zip
    opmplc_essh_hy.zip
    opmplc_essh_hz.zip
    opmplc_essh_na.zip
    opmplc_essh_nb.zip
    opmplc_essh_nc.zip
    opmplc_essh_nd.zip
    opmplc_essh_nf.zip
    opmplc_essh_ng.zip
    opmplc_essh_nh.zip
    opmplc_essh_nj.zip
    opmplc_essh_nk.zip
    opmplc_essh_nl.zip
    opmplc_essh_nm.zip
    opmplc_essh_nn.zip
    opmplc_essh_no.zip
    opmplc_essh_nr.zip
    opmplc_essh_ns.zip
    opmplc_essh_nt.zip
    opmplc_essh_nu.zip
    opmplc_essh_nw.zip
    opmplc_essh_nx.zip
    opmplc_essh_ny.zip
    opmplc_essh_nz.zip
    opmplc_essh_ov.zip
    opmplc_essh_sd.zip
    opmplc_essh_se.zip
    opmplc_essh_sh.zip
    opmplc_essh_sj.zip
    opmplc_essh_sk.zip
    opmplc_essh_sm.zip
    opmplc_essh_sn.zip
    opmplc_essh_so.zip
    opmplc_essh_sp.zip
    opmplc_essh_sr.zip
    opmplc_essh_st.zip
    opmplc_essh_su.zip
    opmplc_essh_sv.zip
    opmplc_essh_sw.zip
    opmplc_essh_sx.zip
    opmplc_essh_sy.zip
    opmplc_essh_sz.zip
    opmplc_essh_ta.zip
    opmplc_essh_tf.zip
    opmplc_essh_tg.zip
    opmplc_essh_tl.zip
    opmplc_essh_tm.zip
    opmplc_essh_tq.zip
    opmplc_essh_tr.zip
    opmplc_essh_tv.zip
    oprvrs_essh_gb.zip


Requirements
-------------

python 2.7, ogr, gdal, postgis, shp2pgsql, ogr2ogr are required and must be installed.



Import
------

The import script is written in fabric. Excecute is as `fab init_db`.
If all goes well you can now connect to the database and inpect the
data.



Starting the Django application
--------------------------------

Activate the virtual environment and start django::

    christian@darkstar:~/devel$ cd os-opendata/
    christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata$ source bin/activate
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata$ cd osschooldata/
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py migrate
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py createsuperuser
    (os-opendata)christian@darkstar:~/devel/os-opendata/osschooldata$ python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8017

Goto `http://localhost:8017/` in your browser.

Click on login to start

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/login.png

Once authenticated start by clicking on *start*

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/logged_in.png

If data from OSM is available it will display as an amber polygon, The Data from
Ordnancesurvey is displayed as a blue polygon and the data from seed/edubase as
a blue marker. Below the map details of this data is displayed.

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign.png

If there is no openstreetmap data only the Ordnancesurvey data is displayed.

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-nosm.png

If there is no data from edubase or seed (i.e. outdated OS-Open data - school is closed):

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-no-school.png

The below image indicates that the school that once existed here was closed:

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/assign-osm-no-edudata.png

You can switch between OpenStreetMap

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/bg-osm.png

and satellite imagery.

.. image:: https://raw.github.com/cleder/os-opendata-edubase/master/docs/bg-sat.png


TODO
----

Docker:
-------

    docker-machine start dev
    docker-compose down
    docker-compose build
    docker-compose up -d
    docker info
    docker-compose logs



.. _ordnancesurvey: https://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk/opendatadownload/products.html
.. _edubase: http://www.education.gov.uk/edubase/home.xhtml
.. _seed: http://www.gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/Browse/School-Education/Datasets/contactdetails
.. _OpenStreetMap: https://www.openstreetmap.org/
